# Git

## Install git on Ubuntu 22.04

First, use the apt package management tools to update your local package index.

```shell
sudo apt update
```

With the update complete, you can install Git:

```shell
sudo apt install git
```

You can confirm that you have installed Git correctly by running the following command.

```shell
git --version
# Output
git version 2.34.1
```

## Setting Up Git

You should configure Git so that the generated commit messages you make will contain your correct information.

Configuration can be achieved by using the git config command.  
Specifically, you need to provide your name and email address because Git embeds this information into each commit you do.  
You can add this information by typing:

```shell
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "youremail@domain.com"
```

You can display all the configuration items that have been set by typing:

```shell
git config --list
# Output
user.name=Your Name
user.email=youremail@domain.com
...
```

_Instructions taken from [DigitalOcean Git Tutorial](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-git-on-ubuntu-22-04)_

You must also configure your **global .gitignore** to exclude the **.idea** hidden directory generated by PhpStorm on each project.  
You can do so by typing :

```shell
echo ".idea" >> ~/.gitignore_global
git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore_global
```

## How to get the .git history of an installed vendor

If you wish to work on a bundle inside a project, we advise getting his git sources directly inside the project, rather than cloning it and open in a standalone context.
That way you can directly test your changes in a real project situation, commit and push these changes to the bundle repository remote.

Firstly you must require the bundle you want to work on the "normal" way.
```shell
composer req smartbooster/symfony-docker
```

Then you have to reinstall bundle with option `--prefer-source`

```shell
composer reinstall smartbooster/symfony-docker --prefer-source
```

After you can open this project from vendor folder in new ide project or add a second remote.

For add a second remote on phpstorm, got to Git -> Manage Remotes ... then add with "+".
